README.md, before:

# sound-laser-demo

This demo is designed allow observers to visualise the effect of interfering sounds waves through a 2d membrane. 

The demo is based on a video made by Science Communicator Steve Mould. The setup that he uses is almost identical with the exception of the GUI and so can be used as a good reference for new demonstrators. His video can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C-V1uXeyGmg

### Itinerary
 * 1x Class 2 Laser Pointer
 * 1x Retort Stand
 * 1x Latex sheet (e.g. Balloon) 
 * 1x Bluetooth Speaker
 * 1x Chamber
 * 1x Laptop with Bluetooth capabilities
 * 1x Small Mirror (~0.5cm*0.5cm)

### Set-Up
1.	Turn the speaker on and connect to laptop using Bluetooth. Place upright in bowl.
2.	Stretch latex sheet over top of bowl and secure with rubber bands if necessary. Due to the shape of balloons, this is often not necessary. Care should be made to ensure that the sheet is stretched relatively uniformly across the surface.
3.	Attach the mirror using double sided tape to the surface of balloon. Make sure to attach the mirror in an off-centre position. Placing in the centre will result in straight line patterns (less interesting!)
4.	Fix laser to retort stand and position laser/bowl such that the laser beam reflects off the mirror and onto a wall ~2/3 metres away.
5.	Open GUI.html in your browser and use to play sounds.

### Things to try
 * Start by playing only 1 tone through the speaker. Sweep through frequencies to find one which produces a clear pattern (e.g. Oval or figure-of-8 pattern).
 * Try overlaying 2 frequencies over the top and sweeping through to find interesting ‘3D’ patterns.
 * Use the scale finder at the bottom and use to find the Tonic and 5th notes in the scale. Overlay them and see what happens.
 * Try to make a ‘stationary’ pattern and see if you can find any relationship between the frequencies (hint: look to see if the frequencies relate to any particular notes).
 * Try playing 2 tones with very similar frequencies (e.g. 200Hz and 202Hz).
 * Try plotting the superposition of 2 frequencies on a graph plotter and seeing if parallels can be drawn between the demo and the plotted graph. (recommended: https://www.desmos.com/calculator)

### Notes
 * The frequencies which work best are between 50Hz and 400Hz. Frequencies higher than this tend to create much smaller patterns which are not visible through the laser.
 * Dependant on the chamber used, you may find that certain frequencies resonate and are therefore much louder. In these cases, the laser can ‘fall off’ the mirror. 
 * Demonstrators with some basic knowledge or music theory and acoustic physics are preferred due to the topics involved.
 * Multiple instances of the GUI can be opened in the event that the demonstrator wants to experiment with more complex patterns, but by default the GUI supports 2 frequencies at once.
 * The demo works best in a dark environment and being projected onto a light-coloured wall.
 * If you have any questions on how the demo works, or if you find any bugs in the GUI, feel free to contact Jaspa Stritt (strittj@cardiff.ac.uk).
 * Larger acoustic chambers can result in acoustic phenomena occurring and create unwanted effects.

### Future Improvements
 * Use the larger chambers and use foam and other materials to damp any unwanted acoustic phenomena.
 * Use latex sheeting with uniform thickness instead of balloons to create a more predictable and reliable result.

Commit message:

Added link to youtube video

README.md, after:

# sound-laser-demo

This demo is designed allow observers to visualise the effect of interfering sounds waves through a 2d membrane. 

The demo is based on a video made by Science Communicator Steve Mould. The setup that he uses is almost identical with the exception of the GUI and so can be used as a good reference for new demonstrators. His video can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C-V1uXeyGmg

A video of the results of this setup is available at https://youtube.com/shorts/FPK7bNw6cjA?feature=share

### Itinerary
 * 1x Class 2 Laser Pointer
 * 1x Retort Stand
 * 1x Latex sheet (e.g. Balloon) 
 * 1x Bluetooth Speaker
 * 1x Chamber
 * 1x Laptop with Bluetooth capabilities
 * 1x Small Mirror (~0.5cm*0.5cm)

### Set-Up
1.	Turn the speaker on and connect to laptop using Bluetooth. Place upright in bowl.
2.	Stretch latex sheet over top of bowl and secure with rubber bands if necessary. Due to the shape of balloons, this is often not necessary. Care should be made to ensure that the sheet is stretched relatively uniformly across the surface.
3.	Attach the mirror using double sided tape to the surface of balloon. Make sure to attach the mirror in an off-centre position. Placing in the centre will result in straight line patterns (less interesting!)
4.	Fix laser to retort stand and position laser/bowl such that the laser beam reflects off the mirror and onto a wall ~2/3 metres away.
5.	Open GUI.html in your browser and use to play sounds.

### Things to try
 * Start by playing only 1 tone through the speaker. Sweep through frequencies to find one which produces a clear pattern (e.g. Oval or figure-of-8 pattern).
 * Try overlaying 2 frequencies over the top and sweeping through to find interesting ‘3D’ patterns.
 * Use the scale finder at the bottom and use to find the Tonic and 5th notes in the scale. Overlay them and see what happens.
 * Try to make a ‘stationary’ pattern and see if you can find any relationship between the frequencies (hint: look to see if the frequencies relate to any particular notes).
 * Try playing 2 tones with very similar frequencies (e.g. 200Hz and 202Hz).
 * Try plotting the superposition of 2 frequencies on a graph plotter and seeing if parallels can be drawn between the demo and the plotted graph. (recommended: https://www.desmos.com/calculator)

### Notes
 * The frequencies which work best are between 50Hz and 400Hz. Frequencies higher than this tend to create much smaller patterns which are not visible through the laser.
 * Dependant on the chamber used, you may find that certain frequencies resonate and are therefore much louder. In these cases, the laser can ‘fall off’ the mirror. 
 * Demonstrators with some basic knowledge or music theory and acoustic physics are preferred due to the topics involved.
 * Multiple instances of the GUI can be opened in the event that the demonstrator wants to experiment with more complex patterns, but by default the GUI supports 2 frequencies at once.
 * The demo works best in a dark environment and being projected onto a light-coloured wall.
 * If you have any questions on how the demo works, or if you find any bugs in the GUI, feel free to contact Jaspa Stritt (strittj@cardiff.ac.uk).
 * Larger acoustic chambers can result in acoustic phenomena occurring and create unwanted effects.

### Future Improvements
 * Use the larger chambers and use foam and other materials to damp any unwanted acoustic phenomena.
 * Use latex sheeting with uniform thickness instead of balloons to create a more predictable and reliable result.
